clustering pitch.md, before:

Simple Interactive Clustering
========================================================
author: N. G. Schwarz
font-family: 'Helvetica'
transition: rotate

Description
========================================================

This simple Shiny app allows you to choose one of three datasets and create clusters and plot graphs to show the groupings of similar variables.

https://astyages.shinyapps.io/clustering


Components
========================================================

With this app you can: 
- Choose between three datasets
- Group variables into different number of cluster
- Plot a dendogram showing the clusters
- Plot a pairs scatterplot showing how the data points are grouped 

Functions
========================================================

The app makes use of the following basic functions

```r
hclust(..., method = "ward.D")    
# to calculate clusters
cutree()    
# to divide data into groups
plot()      
# to plot both the dendogram and the pairs plot
```

Foundations
========================================================

Hierarchical cstering is a descriptive analysis that groups together data points based on variable similarities. The similarity is calculated through the distance of quantitative variables. The method to calculated distance used in this app is the Ward method.

Commit message:

commiting a version that has an r code to evaluate

clustering pitch.md, after:

Simple Interactive Clustering
========================================================
author: N. G. Schwarz
font-family: 'Helvetica'
transition: rotate

Description
========================================================

This simple Shiny app allows you to choose one of three datasets and create clusters and plot graphs to show the groupings of similar variables. You can find it here:

https://astyages.shinyapps.io/clustering


Components
========================================================

With this app you can: 
- Choose between three datasets
- Group variables into different number of cluster
- Plot a dendogram showing the clusters
- Plot a pairs scatterplot showing how the data points are grouped 

Functions
========================================================

The app makes use of the following basic functions

```r
hclust(..., method = "ward.D")    
# to calculate clusters
cutree()    
# to divide data into groups
plot()      
# to plot both the dendogram and the pairs plot
```

Example of Hierarchical Clustering
========================================================

```r
data(trees)
hclust(dist(trees))
```

```

Call:
hclust(d = dist(trees))

Cluster method   : complete 
Distance         : euclidean 
Number of objects: 31 
```
